LET’S GET
AUSTRALIA
BACK ON
TRACK
The Priorities of a Dutton Coalition Government
2            GET AUSTRALIA BACK ON TRACK 
Peter Dutton, Leader of the 
Opposition with wife Kirilly 
and children Rebecca, 
Harry and T om.
We’re all shaped by our background and 
life experiences. I was born into an outer 
suburbs working-class family . Mum and 
Dad – a secretary and bricklayer – didn’t 
have much money. But they raised their five 
children with love, support and a strong 
work ethic. 
From Grade 7 through to university, I worked 
in a butcher’s shop after school. In that job, 
I saw the hard work required to run a small 
business – this helped me later in life to  
run my own small business that employed  
40 people.
As a police officer for nine years, I 
encountered the best and worst of 
humanity. I worked on the beat, then as 
an investigator of organised crime, drug 
trafficking and sex offenders, with a focus 
on protecting women and children. My time 
in law enforcement made me appreciate, all 
the more, the importance of stable families 
and safe communities.
The roles I hold most dear are those of 
husband to Kirilly – to whom I’ve been 
married for 21 years – and father to 
Rebecca, Harry and T om.For more than two decades now, I’ve had 
the great honour to serve my community 
as the Member for Dickson and our 
nation as an Assistant Treasurer and 
Minister for Health, Immigration, Home 
Affairs and Defence. I’ve seen seven 
Prime Ministers in action, served under 
four , and learnt from observing all.
As the Leader of the Opposition, I’ve 
met thousands of Australians across the 
country from all walks of life. Australians 
are truly remarkable – people who are 
compassionate, stoic and fair; people 
who love their country. 
But in the last three years, I’ve seen a 
change. One of the most incompetent 
governments in our history led by one 
of our weakest ever Prime Ministers 
has made bad decisions causing 
Australians to be worse off, our country 
to be less safe, and our nation to be 
divided. Consequently, instead of getting 
ahead, Australians have been held back. 
Aspiration has given way to anxiety. 
Optimism has turned to pessimism. 
And national confidence changed to 
dispiritedness.
FOREWORDTHE PRIORITIES OF A COALITION GOVERNMENT          3
When a government gets its priorities wrong, 
its policies go wrong, and things go wrong for 
the Australian people. The Albanese Labor 
Government has prioritised the agendas 
of Greens activists and union bosses. It has 
disregarded everyday Australian workers, 
families and small businesses – from 
city suburbs to regional towns to coastal 
communities. 
I know that the right decisions aren’t always 
popular but I’ve never been interested in taking 
the easy path. We live in the best country in the 
world because previous generations had the 
strength to make the right calls in our national 
interest. That’s why I’m determined to get 
Australia back on track.
Unlike Labor , we will have the right priorities. And 
with the right priorities, we will have the right 
policies to end the cost of living crisis and make 
Australia prosperous, secure and united again. 
At the next election, I want all Australians to know 
what we stand for and our plan for the country. 
This publication outlines the 12 priorities of the 
Coalition under my leadership. It is our compact 
with Australians to govern with respect for the 
views, values and vision of everyday Australians.
Peter Dutton, Leader of the OppositionThe 12 Priorities of a 
Coalition Government
Build a stronger economy2
Back small b usiness3
Deliver affordable and 
reliable energy4
Fix the housing crisis 5
Rebalance our migration 
program6
Keep Australians safe7
Deli ver quality healthcare8
Build strong and 
sustainable communities11
Cut Go vernment waste 12Grow a stronger Regional 
Australia9
Focus on practical 
action for Indigenous 
Australians10Fight cost of living 
pressures 1
This document outlines the priorities of a Coalition Government. Detailed policies will be released in the lead up to the election 
and can be found at www.liberal.org.au/our-plan. 4            GET AUSTRALIA BACK ON TRACK 
We Believe
Ensuring inflation is low and stable allows interest 
rates to be low and stable and real wage growth 
to return. This provides certainty for families and 
businesses to be able to plan for the future.
Stable and sensible budget management is the 
key to keeping costs down across the economy. 
Our society relies on the strength of Australian 
families, and government must make every effort 
to lower living costs. 
We live in the best country in the world and we 
want Australians to enjoy a high quality of life. Australians work hard and deserve a better standard 
of living. They deserve to have confidence that they can 
always afford the essentials in life. 
The Coalition believes that it is the government’s role to 
manage the budget in a prudent and responsible way, to 
ensure that inflation is low and wages are growing faster 
than household costs. 
This means reducing wasteful and unnecessary spending 
and keeping the budget in balance. It means smaller 
government so that unfair high taxes are not placed on 
families, ensuring they keep more money in their pockets. Australians are suffering from the worst cost of 
living crisis in a generation. Our  living standards 
have collapsed and for the last 21 months Australia 
has been in a per-capita recession – the longest 
household recession on record.1
Australia has experienced the biggest fall in 
household disposable incomes of any developed 
country in the past two years.  
Since Labor was elected: 
 ʯInterest rates have gone up 12 times and payments 
on mortgages have tripled. Families with a typical 
mortgage have paid up to $50,000 extra on their 
mortgages. 
We are being left behind. In 2024 interest rates 
started coming down in most developed 
economies, including the US and most of Europe, 
but not Australia.  
 ʯAnnual electricity bills have increased by up to 
$1,000 more than promised by Labor . This is despite 
their promise to reduce bills by $275 per annum. 
Families entering hardship arrangements with their 
energy provider have increased 66 per cent in two 
years, growing by a staggering rate of over 400 
families a week. 
1  National Accounts, March quarter 2023 to Sept quarter 2024. ʯGovernment-spending-fuelled inflation has driven 
up the cost of groceries, gas, education, health, 
insurance and other essential household items. 
Australia’s core inflation is higher than the US, 
Germany, Singapore, Japan, South Korea, Italy, 
France, Canada and the entire Euro area.2
Australian families are struggling and under the 
Albanese Labor Government, Australia is heading in 
the wrong direction. 
2  ABS, quarterly CPI data, Sept quarter 2024; Trading Economics.
FIGHT COST OF LIVING PRESSURES 
GAS IS UP 36%
ELECTRICITY IS UP 
32% (BEFORE TAXPAYER 
FUNDED REBATES)
UNDER LABOR
RENTS ARE  
UP 17%
FOOD IS  
UP 12%PERSONAL INCOME 
TAXES ARE 22 PER 
CENT HIGHER SINCE 
LABOR WAS ELECTED.FACTUnder Labor
ABS National accounts, Sept quarter 2024
ABS Monthly Consumer Price Index, May 2022- November 2024THE PRIORITIES OF A COALITION GOVERNMENT          5
A Dutton Coalition Government will fight cost of 
living pressures. By getting inflation down and 
alleviating household cost pressures, our standard 
of living can be restored and Australians can get 
ahead. 
We will rein in wasteful spending and repair the 
federal budget. 
This will ensure that the government is helping to 
bring inflation down, not driving it up with reckless 
spending. 
Responsible budget management will take pressure 
off the Reserve Bank, creating an environment for 
much needed interest rate relief for Australians. 
We will drive down costs that flow through each 
stage of the economy. By reducing key business 
input costs, the benefits will flow through to lower 
prices for the consumer at the check-out.
A Dutton Coalition Government will:
 ʯRein in wasteful government spending that is 
fuelling inflation and get interest rates down. 
 ʯDeliver cheaper energy through our balanced 
energy plan, including renewables, gas and  
zero-emissions nuclear .  Our SolutionPeter Dutton, Leader of the Opposition 
 ʯKeep supermarkets from exploiting suppliers 
and consumers through new competition 
policy, including divestiture powers. 
 ʯStrengthen the Food and Grocery 
Code, increase penalties and establish a 
Supermarket Commissioner . 
 ʯProtect the retirement savings of Australians 
from unfair new taxes.
 ʯIncrease the amount older Australians and 
veterans can work without reducing pension 
payments.  
 ʯBoost housing supply and help young 
Australians overcome the deposit hurdle to 
entering the property market.
These priorities will fight cost of living 
pressures for Australian families. 
Every Australian should be 
able to comfortably meet their 
needs and have a standard of 
living that is growing.
I remember living through the early 90s recession and the pressures 
it put on our family business and the sacrifices we made to make the 
household budget balance. When government spends what it can’t 
afford, it drives up inflation. And high inflation makes each dollar you earn 
buy less. As Prime Minister, I will ensure living standards start to improve 
once again, and we revive optimism and confidence about our future. 
6            GET AUSTRALIA BACK ON TRACK 
THE PRIORITIES OF A COALITION GOVERNMENT          7
Grocery price rises are putting 
pressure on my family’s weekly 
shop, at a time when people are 
doing it tough.
When I met Peter and told 
him how this is impacting us, 
he took the time to listen and 
understood the extra pressure 
this puts on household budgets. 
The Coalition’s plan for greater 
supermarket transparency to 
ensure fair competition will 
benefit families like mine, along 
with small businesses and 
farmers who need someone to 
stand up for them. 
Laura, mother of three,  
Queensland8            GET AUSTRALIA BACK ON TRACK 
BUILD A STRONGER ECONOMY 
LABOR IS SPENDING  
$12 FOR EVERY  
$1 SAVED.FACT
Confirmed in 2024-25 MYEFODespite inheriting a strong economy from 
the Coalition, with unemployment and 
interest rates at historic lows, Labor has 
damaged the Australian economy in just 
three years. 
Wasteful government spending, unnecessary 
red tape and higher taxes have stifled growth 
and productivity. Labor’s budgets have seen 
an additional $347 billion in spending – that’s 
an additional $33,000 for every Australian 
household. 
Debt is rising with interest payments on the debt 
forecast to increase to almost 1 per cent of GDP 
and annual taxes have increased by $109 billion. 
Despite record tax revenue from the mining and 
resources sector , this year Labor will oversee 
the largest deterioration in the budget on record 
in dollar terms (outside the pandemic and GFC), 
and we are facing a decade of deficits. Last year the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) 
confirmed government spending is keeping inflation 
higher for longer . The RBA Governor said that 
inflation is now “homegrown”, meaning it’s a direct 
consequence of reckless spending and Labor’s 
wrong priorities. 
The International Monetary Fund has projected that in 
2025, Australia will have the second highest inflation 
of any developed country.1
Our economic conditions have deteriorated and 
under the Albanese Labor Government, Australia is 
heading in the wrong direction.  
1  IMF, Financial Review, 23/10/2024.Under Labor
We Believe
Governments must live within their means. 
Spending should be considered and responsible, 
minimising the need to collect additional tax 
and further burden Australian families and small 
businesses. 
The Coalition believes that it is the responsibility of 
government to spend taxpayer money wisely and to 
ensure that, through sound economic management 
and financial restraint, our economy is best 
protected against unexpected economic shocks. 
We believe in the core principle that you should 
keep more of what you earn and that hard-working 
Australians should be rewarded for their hard work. 
T axation is the killer of aspiration and the best 
reward for hard work is lower taxes. For decades the mining and resources sector 
has not only provided good jobs and bolstered 
our economy but sustained public investment 
in healthcare, schools and infrastructure. The 
Coalition stands unwaveringly with Australia’s 
resources sector – when that industry is strong, 
our nation is strong.
The private sector should drive economic 
growth, with the role of government to support 
Australian industry and the economy by being 
efficient and not creating obstacles to success.THE PRIORITIES OF A COALITION GOVERNMENT          9
A Dutton Coalition Government will build a stronger 
economy by delivering a back-to-basics economic 
agenda. 
The solution to Australia’s economic challenges is to take 
the pressure off inflation by reining-in wasteful spending, 
simplifying regulatory environments and cutting red tape 
to stimulate private sector growth. 
Our economic agenda will get the Budget under control.
We will back the private sector to lead our economy’s 
growth. Our priority will be providing businesses with the 
policy settings they need to grow and thrive. 
A Dutton Coalition Government will: 
 ʯRein in wasteful spending to take the pressure off 
inflation and get interest rates down. 
 ʯProvide lower , simpler and fairer taxes to boost 
economic growth. 
 ʯT urbocharge our mining and resources sector by 
accelerating approvals and cutting red and green tape.Our SolutionPeter Dutton, Leader of the Opposition I have always understood that managing a strong and growing 
economy underpins our prosperity. As Prime Minister, I will apply 
the principles of lean, efficient government that enables businesses 
to grow and make decisions to re-energise our economy.
 ʯIncrease export opportunities for Australian 
farmers and businesses by negotiating new 
free trade agreements. 
 ʯSupport Australian businesses to lead in 
emerging scientific and engineering fields 
such as advanced manufacturing, medical 
research, artificial intelligence, blockchain, 
and space, turning innovation into high-
paying jobs and global opportunities.
 ʯInvest in productive infrastructure, such as 
roads and rail, to unlock greater and more 
efficient economic activity. 
 ʯBring focus and support back to our 
neglected regions as central to our nation’s 
productive capacity. 
These priorities will ensure we build a 
stronger economy. 
10            GET AUSTRALIA BACK ON TRACK 
We Believe
We are a nation of small and family businesses, with 
over 2.5 million small businesses employing almost half 
of Australia’s workforce. 
The Coalition believes that a successful small business 
sector is the key to Australia’s long-term economic 
prosperity. Governments should at all times seek to reduce 
cost and regulatory burdens, in order to support the sector . 
This means reducing unnecessary taxation on industries to 
prevent unfair cost burdens being passed on to businesses 
and the consumer . It means reducing taxes which prohibit 
and discourage businesses from growing and investing.  We believe excessive red tape obstructs job 
creation and whilst appropriate rules are a 
fundamental aspect of our democratic society, 
we should always look to limit inefficient and 
redundant regulation. 
We believe all businesses deserve a fair go. 
Governments should treat all industries equally 
and not pick favourites to support preferred parts 
of the economy.  
We value the contribution small businesses make 
and believe their hard work should be rewarded.BACK SMALL BUSINESS
Under Labor
Business insolvencies in Australia
ASIC insolvency statistics.Business conditions in Australia are collapsing. 
Last year was the worst calendar year on record 
for business insolvencies.1 Electricity prices for 
small businesses have risen by up to 52 per cent.2
The number of businesses not able to pay their 
invoices is also at record highs and has more than 
doubled in the past year .
These statistics reveal a complete failure by Labor 
to deliver an economic plan that supports small 
businesses to grow, thrive and create more jobs.
Labor’s industrial relations agenda has been 
driven by union demands, resulting in less 
flexibility and increased regulation for the small 
business sector .
The changes create more red-tape and harm job 
creation, making life harder for small business.
Borrowing costs for small businesses have 
reached the highest levels in 16 years and 
persistent high inflation is resulting in an 
increased cost of doing business, impacting 
profit margins and investment.
Australia is struggling under a productivity 
recession, with labour productivity falling by almost 6 per cent since Labor was elected.3 A sustained 
fall of this size is unprecedented and must be reversed.
Australian manufacturers have been some of the 
hardest hit. They are competing with producers in 
countries where energy costs are lower . High energy 
prices make it more expensive to produce goods 
locally and make us less attractive on the global market.
Businesses are struggling and under the Albanese 
Labor Government, Australia is heading in the wrong 
direction.
1 ASIC insolvency statistics.
2 https:// energyconsumersaustralia.com.au/projects/retail-tariff-tracker .
3 ABS, Australian National Accounts, September quarter , 2024.THE PRIORITIES OF A COALITION GOVERNMENT          11
Peter Dutton, Leader of the Opposition When I was young I worked in our family building business. I 
learned firsthand how important it is for government to get out of 
the way of business. As Prime Minister, I will ensure businesses 
aren’t stifled by unnecessary interference and regulation.
A Dutton Coalition Government will back small 
business as the key driver of economic growth 
and security. We will be unashamedly pro small 
business, delivering reforms to help the small 
business sector grow and get back on track. 
This is why we have already committed to 
extending the value of assets eligible for instant 
write-off to $30,000, for firms with annual 
turnover up to $10 million. 
We will implement a pro small business agenda 
focused on saving time and money and 
delivering less government intervention and 
greater business freedom. 
A Dutton Coalition Government will: 
 ʯReverse the damaging aspects of Labor’s 
complex industrial relations reforms, including 
returning to a simple definition of a casual 
worker .  
 ʯCurtail union militancy in Australian workplaces 
and reintroduce a tougher Australian Building 
and Construction Commission. 
 ʯCut red and green tape that is stopping 
businesses from getting ahead. 
 ʯDeliver cheaper , cleaner and consistent energy, 
through our balanced plan for energy including 
renewables, gas and zero-emissions nuclear . 
 ʯReduce the tax burden on business 
expenditure.
 ʯDeliver competition policy to give small 
businesses a fair go. 
 ʯEnsure we train our next generation with the 
skills required for the workforce of the future. 
These priorities will drive productivity growth 
and back small business.Our Solution
Workforce
We have the backs of Australian workers, and we 
have the backs of small and family businesses. 
The Coalition has a strong track record of job 
creation and skilling our workforce. Only strong 
economic management can generate the 
prosperity where new businesses open, new 
jobs are created and real wages rise sustainably. 
It’s not only about creating jobs for those 
Australians who are unemployed, but making 
it easier for businesses to create better paid 
jobs. This is important for all Australians as they 
aspire to grow in their careers and seek out the 
opportunities that will allow them to support their 
family and ultimately plan for their retirement.Supporting Australia’s
12            GET AUSTRALIA BACK ON TRACK 
When Mr Dutton says ‘small 
businesses are the lifeblood  
of our communities’ he’s  
on the mark.
Increasing the instant asset 
write off to $30,000 – compared 
to Labor’s $20,000 limit – is a 
strong signal that the Coalition 
understands the need to 
stimulate small and medium 
businesses in this country.
Making the instant asset write 
off an ongoing measure – as 
opposed to Labor’s yearly 
question mark over the policy – 
creates all-important certainty 
for businesses.
Daniel Hunter,  
Business NSWTHE PRIORITIES OF A COALITION GOVERNMENT          13
14            GET AUSTRALIA BACK ON TRACK 
Australian households and businesses are paying 
amongst the highest energy prices in the world. 
Labor promised to reduce annual electricity bills by $275.  
Y et for many Australians, electricity bills have increased by  
up to $1,000 more than promised. 
These increases are not just being felt when the electricity 
bill arrives. Electricity inflation is impacting the cost of doing 
business, driving up the prices of everyday goods and 
services. 
Australians are facing record levels of hardship and 
increasing uncertainty about reliability.
Labor has a ‘renewables only’ approach to our energy 
system, resulting in high prices and a grid that is increasingly 
reliant on weather-dependent and unreliable energy sources. Solar and wind will continue to play an important 
and growing role in our energy mix. However , 
there are limitations, because these energy 
sources only produce electricity when the wind is 
blowing, and the sun is shining. The best battery 
technologies provide only a few hours backup. 
We need a balanced energy mix that is reliable 
24/7 . Essential services such as our hospitals rely 
on it. The Australian Energy Market Operator has 
warned of the risk of reliability gaps, leaving us 
vulnerable to blackouts. 
Labor broke its promise to reduce electricity 
bills by $275 and under the Albanese Labor 
Government, Australia is heading in the wrong 
direction.
DELIVER AFFORDABLE 
AND RELIABLE ENERGY
We Believe
Australia is the greatest country in the world, 
yet an essential service like electricity will 
not be able to be relied upon under Labor.
The Coalition believes we need to deliver 
cheaper , consistent and cleaner power . 
Labor’s industrial scale renewables-only roll-
out is destroying prime agricultural land, our 
national landscapes and our coastlines.
We are committed to achieving net zero-
emissions by 2050. This must be done through 
considered planning that doesn’t inflict higher 
power prices on the Australian economy 
and that doesn’t result in manufacturing jobs 
moving offshore to countries with higher 
emissions than Australia. The shift must be planned and importantly, deliver 
lower prices to the consumer and be used as a catalyst 
for technological advances and industry growth.
We believe we need a responsible growth of 
renewables which avoids massive overbuild across 
pristine landscapes and agricultural land. 
By minimising the footprint and costs of our energy 
system, this will deliver economic, social and 
environmental benefits for all Australians.Under Labor
Frontier Economics, Economic analysis of including 
nuclear power in the NEM, December 2024.The Coalition’s energy plan 
will cost 44 per cent less than 
Labor’s plan through to 2050.
Whether running a business or a household, we should all expect reliable and affordable 
energy – not as a privilege but as a basic necessity. As Prime Minister, I will power-up 
our nation with the cheaper, cleaner and consistent power that Australia needs. This is a 
policy which ends political short-termism and is in the long-term interest of our country.
Peter Dutton, Leader of the Opposition THE PRIORITIES OF A COALITION GOVERNMENT          15
Muja Power 
StationNorthern 
Power Station
Loy Yang  
Power StationMount Piper 
Power StationLiddell  
Power StationTarong  
Power StationCallide  
Power StationAustralia needs cheap, clean and consistent power and 
through our energy plan, a Dutton Coalition Government 
will deliver affordable and reliable energy.
We need new baseload reliable energy generation to 
replace retiring coal-fired power plants, and we have a 
plan to address these challenges. 
We will deliver a balanced energy mix with renewables, 
gas, storage and zero-emissions nuclear . This will 
ensure retiring ‘always on’ baseload power is adequately 
replaced to guarantee reliability of the system, with an 
ongoing source of clean and 24/7 power .  
We will deliver zero-emissions nuclear energy in 
Australia, which has been proven to get electricity prices 
and emissions down all over the world.
31 countries, including the US, UK, Canada, France and 
Japan, have signed a pledge to triple nuclear capacity 
by 2050, highlighting the critical role that nuclear plays in 
cheaper , cleaner and more consistent power . Australia 
is the only country in the top 20 economies that is not 
using zero-emissions nuclear power , or taking steps to 
put it in the mix.
We will unlock more Australian gas to drive down prices 
and safeguard our energy security. Affordable gas 
is critical to the ongoing viability of Australia’s heavy 
industry and manufacturing sector . 
A Dutton Coalition Government will: 
 ʯDeliver lower energy bills for families and businesses. 
 ʯDeliver an energy plan that saves Australians up to 
$263 billion through to 2050 compared to Labor’s 
plan. Our Solution
 ʯEstablish a civil nuclear program in Australia, 
including operating nuclear power plants in 
seven locations across the country. 
 ʯUnlock more Australian gas to safeguard 
our energy security and reliability, through 
streamlined approvals and by encouraging 
increased exploration and development. 
 ʯDevelop gas in key basins, like the Beetaloo, 
and include new gas generation in the capacity 
investment scheme. 
 ʯEnable the responsible and sustainable growth 
of renewables as part of our future generation 
requirements. 
 ʯAvoid the overbuild of transmission lines and 
greenfield industrial solar and wind projects 
that regional communities don’t want. 
 ʯEnsure retiring coal generation is replaced by 
reliable baseload energy. 
These priorities will deliver affordable and 
reliable energy. 
OUR NUCLEAR ENERGY PLAN EXPLAINED
Learn more at: www.AustraliaNeedsNuclear.org.auWe will: 
 ʯLift the moratorium on nuclear technology in 
Australia, allowing us to establish a nuclear program. 
 ʯForm partnerships with the most experienced 
nuclear companies in the world to develop and 
operate seven Federal Government owned nuclear 
power plants across Australia. 
 ʯInitially develop two establishment projects using 
small modular reactors or modern larger plants.  ʯEstablish integrated economic 
development zones centred 
on these new nuclear plants to 
attract manufacturing, value-
add and high-tech industry. 
 ʯCreate regional deals to unlock associated 
investment in modern infrastructure, services and 
community priorities.
A $263 billion saving for Australians. 2       
LABOR’S PLAN - FIVE TIMES MORE 
EXPENSIVE THAN WHAT THEY HAVE 
BEEN TELLING AUSTRALIANS
Electricity customers don’t just pay the costs of one type of 
generation - what consumers pay for is the whole energy system 
- including generation, storage, firming, and poles and wires.
The first of two reports by Frontier Economics revealed the real cost 
of the Albanese Government’s ‘renewables-only’ plan to deliver a  
net-zero electricity grid by 2050.
It will cost at least five times more than what Labor has told the 
Australian people.
While the rollout of Labor’s plan is still in its early days, its high cost 
is already being paid for by households and businesses. Australians 
now pay among the highest electricity prices in the world. 
Labor promised a $275 reduction in household power bills, but 
families are now paying up to $1,000 more than Labor promised.
Since Labor came to office:
• An additional 560 families every week have gone on hardship 
arrangements with their electricity retailer
• Electricity prices for small businesses have risen by up to 52%
• Over 25,000 businesses have closed due, in part, to soaring 
energy costs.  
As prices soar and blackout risks grow more frequent under the 
Albanese Government, even Australia’s greenhouse gas emissions 
have risen.
Frontier Economics analysed the real cost of Labor’s plan. It did this 
by replicating the economic model used by the Australian Energy 
Market Operator for its preferred ‘Step Change’ scenario. 
Frontier Economics found Labor’s plan:
• Risks significantly overestimating future demand for electricity. This 
leads to an expensive overbuild of energy infrastructure, adding to 
power bills over time.
• Forces in arbitrary government targets and a shadow carbon 
price that grows to $420 per tonne by 2050. This leads to capital 
misallocation and higher costs for households.
• Assumes 90% of coal generation closes by 2034 despite what’s 
happening in practice, which is an extension of coal plants and a 
recommissioning of diesel generators by state Labor governments.
Using the same economic modelling, Frontier Economics has now 
compared the cost of Labor’s plan to one which includes zero-
emissions nuclear energy on the path to net-zero.• Labor’s renewables-only plan for our 
energy system will cost at least five 
times more than what Labor has told 
the Australian people. This is likely 
an underestimate with the costs of 
transmission projects already blowing 
out by billions.
• The Coalition’s balanced energy 
mix, with renewables, gas and zero 
emissions nuclear, will be delivered for 
up to $263 billion - or at least 44 per 
cent less than Labor’s plan. 
• A lower total cost energy system 
means lower prices for Australian 
families and businesses.CHEAPER
• Zero-emissions nuclear energy will 
work with renewables and gas to 
power Australia’s future net-zero 
electricity grid. 
• Renewable energy deployment will still 
grow responsibly under the Coalition’s 
plan, but we will avoid the massive over-
build required for Labor’s plan. 
• Both plans will achieve net-zero by 
2050 - but emissions in the Coalition’s 
plan will drop below Labor’s before 
2050, and will generate fewer 
emissions in 2050 and beyond.CLEANER
• Labor’s plan will force out 90% of 
Australia’s 24/7 reliable baseload 
power by 2034, and there will be no 
reliable ‘always on’ 24/7 baseload 
power in their 2050 electricity grid. 
• The Coalition’s plan will deliver a 
balanced energy mix including 
renewables, gas, storage and up to 
14 GW of reliable ‘always on’ 24/7 
baseload power across the National 
Electricity Market (NEM) and Western 
Australia to guarantee the reliability of 
the net-zero electricity grid.  CONSISTENT
       1A $263 billion saving for Australians.
REDUCE POWER PRICES AND 
SECURE CHEAP , CLEAN AND 
CONSISTENT ENERGY FOR 
AUSTRALIANSThe Coalition’s Plan to
Stage One
ZERO-EMISSIONS  
NUCLEAR 
as part of a cheaper, cleaner and consistent energy future. OUR PLAN FOR
A $263 BILLION SAVING FOR AUSTRALIANS
The Coalition’s Energy Plan will cost 44% less than Labor’s
16            GET AUSTRALIA BACK ON TRACK 
years, yet there has been no plan for where these new 
arrivals will live. 
National rents have skyrocketed by 17 per cent 
and families with a typical mortgage are now up to 
$50,000 a year worse off.   
Home ownership has become an unaffordable dream 
and under the Albanese Labor Government, Australia 
is heading in the wrong direction.  Home ownership is the defining issue 
of our generation. Not enough homes are 
being built and the Australian dream of home 
ownership has vanished for too many. 
On every single metric, housing has gone 
backwards under Labor . 
The construction of new homes is at decade 
lows and Labor has overseen falling rates of 
approvals and first home buyers. 
The deposit hurdle is too high for many 
trying to break into the market and access to 
finance has become almost unattainable for 
the average worker . 
Labor has run the biggest migration program 
in a generation, with a net increase of almost 
a million new arrivals in Labor’s first two 
FIX THE HOUSING CRISIS 
FACTLABOR ARE ON TRACK TO FALL 
SHORT OF THEIR 1.2 MILLION 
NEW HOMES TARGET BY 
400,000 HOMES.Under Labor
 Master Builders Australia chief economist,  
Shane Garrett, Herald Sun, 15/10/24.
We Believe
The Coalition believes that home ownership 
provides economic security and independence 
and should be achievable for every Australian.
Owning a home provides a secure base for the 
family unit and becomes a source of pride as well 
as the primary asset of household wealth.
We believe that the aspiration of home ownership 
should be in reach for all Australians. 
The government has significant influence on both 
supply and demand factors that affect housing 
affordability.
We believe that government policy settings must 
keep the balance so that the supply of housing 
is meeting demand, and that policies to increase 
supply and manage demand are both needed to 
fix Labor’s housing affordability crisis.THE PRIORITIES OF A COALITION GOVERNMENT          17
A Dutton Coalition Government will act immediately to 
fix the housing crisis. 
Through our plan, we will free up more than 100,000 
homes in the next five years and will unlock up to 
500,000 new homes through new infrastructure funding. 
We will manage housing demand through a sensible 
migration intake that our housing supply growth can 
handle. We will cut red tape in the construction sector 
and invest in critical infrastructure to support the building 
of more homes. 
A Dutton Coalition Government will: 
 ʯBoost housing supply to alleviate the shortages that 
have shut new buyers out of the market.
 ʯFund essential infrastructure like water , power and 
sewerage at housing development sites. 
 ʯFight inflation to take pressure off interest rates and 
rents. 
 ʯReduce migration to sensible levels that our housing 
supply can handle.
 ʯImplement a two-year ban on foreign investors and 
temporary residents purchasing existing homes in 
Australia. 
 ʯSupport first home buyers and older women to 
overcome the prohibitive challenge of saving for a 
home deposit by allowing superannuation savings to 
be used to help build their deposit. 
 ʯAddress supply chain constraints and invest in skills 
development. 
 ʯEnsure we have an adequate number of skilled visas 
for those in the construction sector to support our 
capable local workforce. Our SolutionPeter Dutton, Leader of the Opposition Today, the dream of home ownership is beyond reach for so many. 
Entering the property market shouldn’t be limited to those who can 
rely on the bank of mum and dad. As Prime Minister, I will restore 
the dream of home ownership and make it achievable again.
 ʯCut red and green tape to allow builders 
to get on with the job of building more 
homes, including freezing further 
changes to the National Construction 
Code. 
 ʯRestore the Australian Building and 
Construction Commission to tackle 
union corruption that has contributed  
to driving up building costs by up to  
30 per cent.
 ʯMaintain the Home Guarantee Scheme, a 
former Coalition Government initiative to 
help first home buyers save for a deposit.
These priorities will ensure we build more 
homes and fix the housing crisis.
18            GET AUSTRALIA BACK ON TRACK 
THE PRIORITIES OF A COALITION GOVERNMENT          19
Buying a house right now is 
really hard. 
When we met Peter to talk 
about the pressures that exist 
for young families to buy the 
house they need to raise their 
children, he listened. And he 
told us it was important to him 
that changes were made to 
make it easier on families like us.  
The Coalition’s plan to 
help councils deliver the 
infrastructure needed to build 
more houses will definitely help 
thousands of families like ours 
enter the market.
Shafeen and Hamida,  
Victoria20            GET AUSTRALIA BACK ON TRACK 
We Believe
The Coalition believes in sensible and managed 
migration that is sustainable and in line with our 
capacity to adequately provide for existing, as well as 
new citizens. 
We celebrate the role of migrants in our communities 
and the incredible contributions they make to 
our society. By ensuring the proper and orderly 
management of our intake, we can ensure that the 
benefits of migration continue.
We believe that Australia needs strong and secure 
borders to ensure that anyone entering our country is 
doing so legally.
It is vital that the integrity of our migration system is 
maintained. Strong border protection laws are required 
to stop those who seek to illegally enter our country.
We expect people seeking to migrate to our country to 
respect the values of our democratic Australian society.Thousands of visas have been granted to people 
from some of the most dangerous parts of the 
world without adequate background and security 
checks. Convicted criminals have been released 
from immigration detention into our communities, 
often proceeding to re-offend against innocent 
Australians.
Australia’s migration program is unsustainable and 
under the Albanese Labor Government, Australia is 
heading in the wrong direction.  Australia is the greatest multicultural nation 
in the world, something all Australians should 
be proud of. However Labor has created an 
unsustainable migration program with significant 
consequences. 
Net migration to Australia reached almost 1 million 
people in Labor’s first two years – 70 per cent  
higher than in any previous two-year period. A new 
person is migrating to Australia every 46 seconds. 
This is unsustainable and is severely impacting our 
social and economic infrastructure. 
The integrity of our migration system has been 
undermined by Labor’s border security failures. This 
has seen criminal people smuggling syndicates 
back in business with almost 500 people having 
attempted to enter Australia illegally on 26 boats - of 
which seven have reached Australia.
REBALANCE OUR MIGRATION  
PROGRAM 
UNDER LABOR,  
EVERY 4 YEARS OUR 
MIGRATION INTAKE IS  
THE SIZE OF ADELAIDE.FACTUnder Labor
Budget 2022-2023; Budget 2024-2025 and 2024-25  
Mid-Y ear Economic and Fiscal Outlook (MYEFO).THE PRIORITIES OF A COALITION GOVERNMENT          21
A Dutton Coalition Government will rebalance our 
migration program to restore confidence and integrity, 
and to relieve pressure on housing and community 
services. 
We will structure our intake to a level that Australia can 
properly sustain without impacting on the quality of life 
and economic prosperity of Australia and Australians.
We cannot and will not allow high migration settings that 
erode living standards, overburden our infrastructure or 
exacerbate housing shortages in our communities. 
A Dutton Coalition Government will:
 ʯUrgently address the record levels of migration intake 
under Labor by reducing the permanent migration 
intake by 25 per cent. 
 ʯReduce the number of international students 
studying at metropolitan universities. Our SolutionPeter Dutton, Leader of the Opposition As Immigration Minister, I oversaw Operation Sovereign Borders that 
restored integrity to our migration system. When we lose control of 
our borders - or have regular migration at unsustainable levels - the 
ramifications are felt across our nation. The Coalition will ensure our borders 
are secure, return migration to sustainable levels, and ensure our migration 
program relieves pressure on housing, infrastructure and services.
 ʯProperly plan and invest in our infrastructure 
and housing needs so that the level of 
migration into our country is no higher than 
what is sustainable.
 ʯSecure our borders and restore integrity to the 
migration system.
 ʯStrengthen our detention laws to keep violent 
criminals, whose visas have been cancelled, 
properly monitored and off the streets. 
These sensible steps will rebalance our 
migration program and deliver sustainable and 
manageable intake levels to protect the living 
standards of all Australians.
We are a people of many backgrounds, of many 
faiths, who practise many cultural traditions. 
Despite these differences, we are united as 
Australians by the things we have in common: 
our love of family, our appreciation for friends 
and colleagues, our attachment to community, 
our sense of duty, our aspiration and optimism, 
our respect for law and liberty, our pride in our 
country, and our desire to protect democracy.
Peter Dutton, Leader of the Opposition 22            GET AUSTRALIA BACK ON TRACK 
under Labor , with many reoffending against innocent 
Australians. 
Labor’s approach to national security is weak, as 
shown by cuts to important defence spending (now 
under 2 per cent of GDP) and the significant shift in 
Australia’s foreign policy position towards our ally 
Israel. 
Australia needs leadership in the current environment 
yet under the Albanese Labor Government, Australia 
is heading in the wrong direction.Australians are anxious about the more dangerous 
world they are living in, with geopolitical tensions 
and, more recently, rising crime on home soil. 
Labor is not showing leadership and strength during 
this time, and inaction and weakness is leading to 
Australians becoming increasingly worried amid 
current security challenges. 
Crime and hate have spread across many parts of our 
communities. 
At our universities, places of worship and on the 
streets, antisemitism and extremism are out of control.
Labor has watered down Operation Sovereign 
Borders and failed to deliver maritime surveillance, 
allowing people smugglers to bring people on to our 
shores undetected. 
More than 280 serious criminals have been released 
from immigration detention into the community 
It is the government’s responsibility to foster 
national unity by standing firmly against 
sectarianism and extremism and promoting 
harmony and tolerance in our society. 
We believe that strong and decisive action must 
be taken to keep Australians safe. The Coalition believes that the safety and security 
of our nation and the communities that we live in 
are the first responsibility of government.
We believe that investing in the best capabilities for 
the Australian Defence Force is an investment in 
peace, and that peace is achieved and maintained 
through a strong army, navy and air force. 
We believe that in a dangerous world Australia needs 
to work more closely than ever before with our allies 
and partners and stand up for our interests and 
values on the international stage.
We believe that community safety is a core part of our 
national security, and our security and intelligence 
agencies must be given the resources and powers 
they need to protect Australians. 
KEEP AUSTRALIANS SAFE 
Peter was a police officer for nine years 
(Pictured with his grandmother).
We BelieveLABOR HAS OVERSEEN  
MORE THAN $80 BILLION  
IN CUTS AND DELAYS TO 
AUSTRALIA’S DEFENCE BUDGET.FACTUnder Labor
Budget 2023-2024; Budget 2024-2025 and 2024-25  
Mid-Y ear Economic and Fiscal Outlook (MYEFO).THE PRIORITIES OF A COALITION GOVERNMENT          23
A Dutton Coalition Government will get to work 
immediately to keep Australians safe against rising 
threats domestically and internationally.  
National security and community safety will be the first 
priority of a Dutton Coalition Government to ensure that 
Australians feel safe and united.
That’s why we have already announced measures such as 
an Antisemitism T askforce that will refer any visa holders 
involved in acts of antisemitism for immediate cancellation 
and deportation. 
That’s why we have announced measures to tackle local 
crime, such as working with the states and territories to 
deliver uniform knife laws and limiting and restricting the 
sale and possession of knives to minors and dangerous 
individuals. 
A Dutton Coalition Government will:
 ʯMake defence capability acquisition decisions to equip 
our Defence Force with the best platforms they need 
and deserve at speed and scale. 
 ʯIncrease the Defence budget to address the cuts and 
delays by Labor . 
 ʯBack the Defence industry sector as a key partner in 
delivering capabilities. 
 ʯRepair strained relationships with our allies such as 
Israel, and ensure our AUKUS, Quad and Five Eyes 
relationships continue to deepen. 
 ʯWork closely with our Pacific family and Southeast Asian 
neighbours to secure a safe and prosperous region.
 ʯProgress the Coalition-initiated AUKUS partnership, the 
greatest defence initiative in a generation. Our SolutionPeter Dutton, Leader of the Opposition I served in the Queensland Police Service, which was rewarding but also 
confronting. As Home Affairs Minister and Defence Minister, I was responsible 
for strengthening our Defence Force, strong borders and safe communities. 
As Prime Minister, I will be a leader who doesn’t shirk the hard and necessary 
decisions which must be made in these tough and precarious times.
 ʯCollaborate with law enforcement to deliver 
coordinated and effective anti-crime measures. 
 ʯBuild on the success of Operation Sovereign 
Borders to expand and enhance our border 
security to stop people smuggling and secure 
our borders. 
 ʯRestore Home Affairs to its rightful place as the 
pre-eminent domestic national security policy 
and operations portfolio. 
 ʯT ackle the increasing prevalence of drugs in our 
community. 
 ʯProtect our children from emerging threats 
to their safety and wellbeing online and equip 
parents with the awareness and tools they need 
to keep their children safe online. 
 ʯDouble funding for the Australian Centre to 
Counter Child Exploitation.
 ʯMake it illegal to post material glamourising 
violence, drug and property crimes to increase 
a person’s notoriety.
These priorities will help keep Australians safe.
Announcing a Coalition Government will establish an 
Antisemitism T askforce and deliver a $32.5 million security 
funding package to protect Australia’s Jewish community. 
24            GET AUSTRALIA BACK ON TRACK 
We Believe
The health of all Australians will always be a top priority 
for the Coalition. There is nothing more important than 
ensuring we are a healthy and active society. 
The Coalition believes all Australians are entitled to access 
quality healthcare. It doesn’t matter where you live, or how 
old you are, you deserve to be cared for when you need it. 
We believe healthcare in Australia should be patient-
centric, ensuring that individuals are at the heart of every 
medical decision. 
Patients should feel empowered to make decisions, whilst 
being supported by excellent health professionals.Mental health remains one of the greatest health 
challenges we face and despite growing awareness, 
government investment remains inadequate. 
240,000 Australians are currently without the 
extended support they need4, due to Labor’s cuts to 
Medicare subsidised mental health support.
Critical unaddressed problems in the health 
system and Labor’s cost of living crisis have led to 
worse patient outcomes, GP shortages and more 
Australians ramped or waiting for healthcare. 
Health is not being prioritised by Labor and under 
the Albanese Labor Government, Australia is 
heading in the wrong direction.   
4   Community Affairs Committee, Health and Aged Care Portfolio, Questions on 
Notice, April, 2023, p2.Our health system is facing significant challenges and 
Labor has no plan to address them.
We have a serious shortage of GPs, which means seeing 
the doctor has become harder and this will worsen into 
the future. By 2031, it is expected that we will have a 
shortage of up to 8,000 GPs across Australia.1
Seeing a GP has never been more expensive, with the 
GP bulk billing rate dropping 11 per cent under Labor2 
and Medicare currently covering the lowest percentage 
of GP fees on record.
In 2023, 1.2 million Australians avoided seeing a GP due 
to the cost. This is exposing patients and leaving many 
vulnerable to adverse health outcomes.3
1     RACGP data, January 2025.
2    Department of Health and Aged Care, Medicare Annual Statistics, July 2024.
3  Cleanbill-Blue-Report-Regional-Breakdown-February-2024.pdf
DELIVER QUALITY HEALTHCARE
We support Medicare and a strong public health 
system, supported by a strong non-government 
hospital and health insurance sector . We value the 
private sector’s participation in the provision of 
healthcare.
The Coalition backs frontline healthcare workers 
such as doctors and nurses, not bureaucrats, as 
those most qualified to shape our system and 
implement effective healthcare solutions. 
We believe the role of government is to help 
Australians and to be there when they need it most.
Under Labor
Peter Dutton as Health MinisterTHE PRIORITIES OF A COALITION GOVERNMENT          25
The Coalition has a plan to address key challenges in our 
health system and to deliver quality healthcare.  
Our primary focus will be on delivering a world class 
health system, with better health outcomes in the areas 
that are in desperate need of investment and reform. 
That’s why we have already announced we will restore 
the Coalition’s doubling of Medicare-subsidised mental 
health sessions from 10 to 20 on a permanent basis and 
will invest $400 million to re-build the GP workforce and 
encourage junior doctors to become GPs. 
We will work collaboratively with patients, the Australian 
Medical Association and Royal Australian College of 
General Practitioners to deliver better health outcomes, 
drawing upon their knowledge and expertise to address 
current challenges and plan for future ones.
A Dutton Coalition Government will: 
 ʯGuarantee the growing funding of Medicare. 
 ʯSupport Australians to receive healthcare in a timely 
way wherever they live. 
 ʯGrow our GP workforce to address increasing 
shortages through new incentive payments, 
entitlements and training support.
 ʯRestore critical Medicare funding to help more 
Australians suffering from mental health conditions.Our SolutionAs Health Minister, I was proud to increase hospital funding by 16 per 
cent and establish the Medical Research Future Fund. I increased bulk 
billing to 84 per cent and the Coalition finished its term in Government 
with bulk billing reaching 88 per cent. I believe that quality healthcare is 
the hallmark of a caring nation. As Prime Minister, I will continue to invest 
in key health services and a sustainable system we can all rely on. 
 ʯSupport Australians to access suicide prevention 
services.
 ʯInvest in cancer treatments, such as specialist 
cancer nurses to support Australians with Ovarian 
Cancer – the deadliest cancer affecting women. 
 ʯInvest in cutting-edge medical research to drive 
treatment breakthroughs and advancements for 
Australians. 
 ʯDeliver new investments in best-practice women’s 
health issues, such as endometriosis, menopause 
and peri-menopause. 
 ʯSupport regional health worker attraction, 
recruitment and retention initiatives to ensure those 
living outside our metropolitan centres are not 
disadvantaged.
 ʯConduct a review of women-specific health items 
funded under Medicare and the PBS to ensure the 
best support is provided to Australian women.
 ʯReduce unnecessary waste in the health 
bureaucracy, redirecting it to frontline health 
services. 
 ʯContinue support for the timely access to 
medicines through community pharmacies. 
These priorities will ensure we deliver quality 
healthcare, something all Australians deserve.Peter Dutton, Leader of the Opposition 
THE COALITION’S RECORD ON HEALTH
Learn more at: www.liberal.org.au/health-factsThe previous Coalition Government:
   increased Medicare funding every year;
   increased hospital funding by 86%;
   delivered record bulk billing rates;
   made 2,900 new or amended medicines listings;   doubled the number of Medicare 
subsidised mental health sessions; and
   delivered a world leading pandemic 
response.
26            GET AUSTRALIA BACK ON TRACK 
David Littleproud,  
Leader of The NationalsDavid Littleproud,  
Leader of The Nationals
Life is harder for regional Australians under the Albanese 
Labor Government. 
Families face a cost-of-living crisis, Labor has cut billions of 
dollars for regional road, transport and water projects and it’s 
never been harder to access a country GP or find local childcare.
I’m driven to bring some common sense back to Canberra and 
to fight for a fairer share for families in regional, rural and remote 
communities.
Our plan will tackle the challenges faced by regional Australia 
head on and unlock our full potential. As part of a strong and 
united Coalition Government we will get Australia back on track.
THE PRIORITIES OF A COALITION GOVERNMENT          27
28            GET AUSTRALIA BACK ON TRACK 
Services and infrastructure have deteriorated since 
Labor came to office. They have scrapped major 
road projects in regional areas. It has become harder 
and more expensive to visit a GP and more and 
more regional Australians are having to travel to the 
city for basic health treatment.
The gap in access to childcare, aged care and 
disability support is unacceptable, but Labor have no 
interest in addressing this.
Regional Australia is not getting the focus it deserves 
and under the Albanese Labor Government,  
Australia is heading in the wrong direction.   Life is harder for regional Australians under Labor, 
who have neglected regional communities across 
the country. 
Labor has actively undermined and sometimes outright 
blocked economic development opportunities in 
regional areas, such as in mining, gas, forestry, fishing, 
farming and manufacturing. Regional Australia – and 
our nation more broadly – are missing out on billions of 
dollars due to Labor’s hostile regional policies.
They have even provided taxpayer funds to support 
legal action against projects that would create jobs and 
a bright future for regional communities.
GROW A STRONGER 
REGIONAL AUSTRALIA
We Believe
The Coalition understands that rural and 
regional Australia provides the bulk of 
our exports and makes a vast economic 
contribution to Australia’s wealth and living 
standards.
We believe that our regions deserve a 
government that represents them, understands 
them, and invests in them.
Without our regions, Australia would be 
unrecognisable. A failure to invest in and enhance 
the drivers of our regional economies will 
cost Australia’s future growth and prosperity 
significantly.
We believe that all Australians deserve excellent 
fundamental service delivery, and that health and 
education in our regions should be of the highest 
standard.
We know that there will always be differences 
between life in the bush versus life in the city, 
but that a fundamental role of government is 
to ensure high quality essential services and 
support, regardless of postcode.Under Labor
We believe that investing in our regions ensures 
that they will continue to be the powerhouse of our 
economy and that vibrant regional communities are 
the lifeblood of our nation.Regional Australia produces 
over 30 per cent  
of the national 
economic output.
DITRDCA, Gross Regional Product Estimates, 2024THE PRIORITIES OF A COALITION GOVERNMENT          29
A Dutton Coalition Government will grow a 
stronger Regional Australia. 
Regional Australia will be well represented across 
a Dutton Coalition Government, with senior 
Ministers from rural and regional Australia in 
Cabinet and the Ministry. 
We will have a strong regional perspective 
on all decision making, and always look for 
opportunities to ensure equity and fairness.
We will address critical gaps in access to essential 
services. Regional communities contribute 
significantly to our national economic and social 
fabric and deserve quality local services. 
A Dutton Coalition Government will:
 ʯInvest in roads, rail and local infrastructure for 
communities and economic production.
 ʯFund enabling infrastructure to unlock new 
housing in regional and rural Australia such as 
water , sewerage and access roads.
 ʯProtect jobs and businesses in traditional local 
industries like timber , salmon and mining that 
are under threat from Labor and the Greens. 
 ʯEnd Labor’s live sheep export ban. 
 ʯEnsure government regulation is balanced 
and genuine, not used for activist causes or 
obstructing our regional industries. Our SolutionWith its priorities being Greens activists and union bosses, Labor has treated 
regional Australians as second-class citizens. Hardworking regions keep our 
economy strong. Without them, Australia would be poorer. The Coalition will 
stand up for everyday Australians from our suburbs to our regions.
 ʯProtect prime agricultural land from destruction by 
ideological projects and stop Labor’s water buybacks.
 ʯDevelop and support access to export markets and 
trade opportunities to advance regional businesses. 
 ʯImprove access to telecommunications and high speed 
internet.
 ʯInvest in practical local water infrastructure projects 
to support agriculture, industry and economic 
development.
 ʯDeliver essential services that are of high quality 
regardless of geography.
 ʯWork with local industries to address chronic regional 
workforce shortages.
 ʯSupport regional health worker attraction, recruitment 
and retention initiatives.
 ʯBack local solutions to provide better access to flexible 
childcare and education services for families living in 
regional, rural and remote communities. 
 ʯSupport existing regional industries to grow and foster 
new manufacturing and processing opportunities to 
capitalise on the competitive advantages of our regions.
 ʯT urbocharge our mining and resources sector and 
lean into growing opportunities like critical minerals by 
accelerating approvals and cutting red and green tape. 
 ʯUnlock economic growth in Northern Australia. 
This will be the basis to grow a stronger Regional 
Australia.Peter Dutton, Leader of the Opposition 
We will unashamedly 
support our miners, 
farmers, fishers and 
foresters and back 
their industries.
Peter Dutton,  
Leader of  
the Opposition 30            GET AUSTRALIA BACK ON TRACK 
We Believe
The Coalition is proud of our history representing 
Indigenous Australians. The first Indigenous Senator , 
Member of the House of Representatives, and Cabinet 
Minister were all members of the Liberal Party.
We believe in treating people as individuals, not 
groups, and in enabling and fostering individual 
opportunity and reward for effort. We want to invest in 
pathways that provide bright futures for those who are 
marginalised.The Coalition believes that Australia must be 
a great place for all of us to live, and that it is 
completely unacceptable for any Australian to 
endure diminished opportunity or standards of 
living because of their heritage.
We believe that the challenges facing Indigenous 
Australians are varied and complex, and that 
treating all Indigenous Australians as having the 
same problems is discriminatory and wrong.For Labor , symbolism and tokenism are the 
priority, rather than practical action to address the 
varied instances of inequality, poverty and neglect.
Scrapping the cashless debit card is an example 
of ideology triumphing over real-world experience. 
Labor has not worked in the best interests of 
communities affected by the outcomes of such 
policies. 
Labor are not addressing significant challenges 
for Indigenous Australians and under the 
Albanese Labor Government, Australia is 
heading in the wrong direction.  Labor has failed to achieve meaningful results 
in addressing Indigenous disadvantage.
Their sole focus was the Voice to Parliament 
referendum. Since Australians voted no, 
Labor has had nothing to say or do to provide 
leadership or focus on the serious issues 
blighting many Indigenous communities across 
regional and remote Australia.
Some measures in the Closing the Gap 
framework are actually going backwards. Labor’s 
distraction is leaving the most vulnerable people 
in Indigenous communities at great risk.
FOCUS ON PRACTICAL ACTION 
FOR INDIGENOUS AUSTRALIANS
Under LaborTHE PRIORITIES OF A COALITION GOVERNMENT          31
A Dutton Coalition Government will focus on practical 
action for Indigenous Australians.
We want to target and address the significant 
disadvantage and neglect within regional and remote 
Indigenous communities.
A Dutton Coalition Government will:
 ʯFocus government efforts on delivering 
improvements in our most marginalised Indigenous 
communities.  
 ʯUndertake a full audit of all government programs 
and expenditure in Indigenous affairs to identify 
failed and/ or unnecessary funding that can be 
reprioritised towards frontline solutions.
 ʯLaunch a Royal Commission into Sexual Abuse 
in Indigenous Communities to shine a light on 
the horrors of these crimes and identify systemic 
reforms to be implemented that will end this 
scourge.Our Solution
 ʯReintroduce the Cashless Debit Card 
for working-aged welfare recipients in 
consultation with communities, to make sure 
children are getting the support from their 
parents that they deserve.
 ʯProvide more housing as a fundamental 
need of those in Indigenous communities 
and beyond. 
 ʯBoost law and order in Indigenous 
communities. 
 ʯEmpower Indigenous communities to use 
their land for economic development.
 ʯProvide practical solutions to improve health 
outcomes for Indigenous women and 
children. 
These measures will focus on practical 
action for Indigenous Australians.
Having travelled 
throughout regional and 
remote Australia, I’ve seen 
firsthand the challenges 
facing the most vulnerable 
Indigenous communities. 
As Prime Minister, I will 
make tough decisions and 
prioritise practical support 
to the frontline rather than 
seeing more money be 
wasted on more Canberra-
based bureaucracy which 
has done nothing to better 
the lives of disadvantaged 
Indigenous Australians.
Peter Dutton, Leader of the Opposition 32            GET AUSTRALIA BACK ON TRACK 
We Believe
The Coalition believes a strong economy is the 
key to fulfilling our aspirations for Australia. 
We believe when the budget is healthy, we 
can sustainably support and better expand 
community services.
We believe that while we are all Australians, we 
each have unique and diverse needs, and it is the 
role of government to understand those needs 
and to deliver targeted improvements. 
Y oung Australians should be given a quality 
education and taught the basics, such as reading, 
writing, maths and science, through explicit 
instruction.
Older Australians should be supported by 
aged care services that maintain well-being, 
independence and dignity. 
Families should have access to affordable 
child care, ensuring parents can balance their 
professional and personal responsibilities. 
People living with a disability should have tailored 
strategies to support their specific needs. 
Veterans should be recognised for their 
incredible sacrifices, with their specific health and 
employment challenges prioritised and addressed.
We believe that local small businesses should 
prosper so we see growth in demand for services, 
hospitality and tourism.
We believe that inherent in conservative values is 
the need to preserve and protect our environment 
and leave our next generation with something 
better than what we inherited.
We believe that as a free, democratic, outward 
looking nation that values opportunity and fairness, 
Australia has so much to be proud of. We believe 
that what unites us as Australians is far more 
powerful than anything that divides us.Labor’s economic failures have led to poor 
quality service delivery by government. 
Key performance indicators across a 
wide variety of government services have 
deteriorated.
Despite record tax revenues being levied 
on all Australians, Labor has presided over 
waste and mismanagement of the key 
services and support we all rely on.
Labor has damaged the economy through 
wasteful spending and the wrong priorities. 
This hampers the ability to invest in 
important infrastructure, environmental and 
social programs that improve the quality of 
life for Australians.
Distracted by issues like the failed Voice 
Referendum, Labor has neglected the 
core responsibilities of government and 
consistently prioritised symbolism over 
practical and tangible action.
Our community and social services are in an 
unacceptable state and under the Albanese 
Labor Government, Australia is heading in 
the wrong direction.
BUILD STRONG AND 
SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES
Under LaborTHE PRIORITIES OF A COALITION GOVERNMENT          33
A Dutton Coalition Government will build strong 
and sustainable communities. 
We will prioritise quality service delivery and invest 
in communities to improve the lives of all Australians. 
Our investments in services will be underpinned 
by a healthy budget and growing economy. The 
healthier the federal budget, the healthier our 
communities can be.
Giving families greater choices 
around work and care
A Dutton Coalition Government will: 
 ʯAllow eligible parents to either receive 
superannuation contributions on government 
funded paid parental leave (PPL), or an additional 
two weeks of funded PPL, or a one-off payment 
equal to the total value of the superannuation 
entitlement for PPL. 
 ʯDrive improvements to maintain low out-of-pocket 
child care costs for Australian families.
 ʯSupport greater access to child care places 
in regional Australia.Our SolutionPeter Dutton, Leader of the Opposition A confident and resilient country is reflective of strong families and well-
supported communities. As Prime Minister, I want to ensure our schools 
are nurturing children in a responsible way. I want those with disability, our 
veterans, and older Australians to be treated with dignity and respect.
 ʯFocus on providing targeted assistance to 
families in greatest need by offering the highest 
subsidies to those with the lowest incomes, 
the most hours of subsidy to those families 
working the most, and additional support for 
households with multiple children in child care.
Back to basics education
A Dutton Coalition Government will: 
 ʯFocus on teaching young children the basics 
through explicit instruction, making reading, 
writing, maths and science a priority.
 ʯMatch dollar-for-dollar agreements already 
announced by the Federal Government for 
schools funding. 
 ʯPut behaviour on the agenda to combat 
classroom disruption and improve the 
environments in which students learn.
 ʯBack faith-based education - not attack it - 
because we believe choosing a school which 
aligns to one’s faith or values is the right of 
every Australian family.
 ʯBack parents to have a greater awareness 
over what is being taught in the classroom and 
set teachers up for success in the classroom 
through world-class teacher training.
 ʯSupport parents to protect their children from 
online bullying and harm.
 ʯCreate more apprentices and trainees and 
ensure the training system is delivering the 
skills Australians need. 
 ʯEnsure universities are focused on core 
academic instruction and research, rather than 
political agendas, and overhaul their policies to 
tackle antisemitism on campus. 
34            GET AUSTRALIA BACK ON TRACK 
Our Solution
Combating the scourge of 
family and domestic violence
A Dutton Coalition Government will:
 ʯSupport the extension of emergency payments 
to support women and children fleeing 
domestic violence.
 ʯMake it an offence to use mobile phone and 
computer networks to cause an intimate 
partner or family member to fear for their 
personal safety, to track them using spyware, 
or engage in coercive behaviours, and 
ensure tough bail laws apply to these new 
Commonwealth offences.
 ʯWork with states and territories to develop 
uniform knife laws across all jurisdictions.
 ʯEnsure child protection and the safety of 
women will be enduring priorities, by increasing 
resources to the Australian Centre to Counter 
Child Exploitation and through practical 
support to protect victim survivors of domestic 
violence and their families.Quality disability support
A Dutton Coalition Government will: 
 ʯGuarantee NDIS funding to support those 
with permanent and significant disabilities. 
 ʯProvide practical support to help those 
living with a disability overcome barriers 
and enable them to find and keep 
employment. 
 ʯEnsure all levels of government provide 
the support required for people with a 
disability.
 ʯEradicate fraud and waste from the NDIS to 
deliver value for taxpayer dollars.
Independent and dignified aged care
A Dutton Coalition Government will: 
 ʯFund a sustainable aged care system that 
is flexible to individual circumstances and 
provides as much choice as possible. 
 ʯAddress the growing waiting list for home 
care, particularly in regional communities.
 ʯEnsure older Australians can live with 
dignity and get the support they require. 
 ʯAssist older Australians wanting to access 
home care packages to stay in their homes 
for longer . 
 ʯWork with providers and other 
stakeholders to ensure the aged care 
system delivers for all older Australians 
wanting to access it. 
THE PRIORITIES OF A COALITION GOVERNMENT          35
Genuine conservation
A Dutton Coalition Government will: 
 ʯFocus on practical and genuine environmental 
conservation.
 ʯSupport community driven initiatives to green 
Australia’s landscapes.
 ʯMinimise the footprint of our energy system to protect 
pristine landscapes and agricultural land.
 ʯSecure the National Water Grid by supporting projects 
which will improve water security for communities and 
farmers.
 ʯPlay an active role in funding and fostering the 
protection, restoration and sustainability of our land 
and waterways. 
 ʯSupport practical initiatives to address climate change. 
 ʯEnsure the preservation and protection of our natural 
wonders like our treasured Great Barrier Reef.
Community focused support
A Dutton Coalition Government will: 
 ʯSupport and strengthen youth, community, 
multicultural and volunteer groups and charities, 
acknowledging the critical role they play in society. 
 ʯDeliver practical solutions to improve education, health 
and safety outcomes for Indigenous Australians.  ʯInvest in regional health, road and rail 
projects, and community infrastructure 
programs to ensure regional Australians are 
not disadvantaged due to their location. 
 ʯAddress the root causes of homelessness 
by investing in improved services in areas 
such as mental health. 
 ʯEnsure the welfare system is fit for purpose 
and provides a safety net for those 
Australians most in need. 
 ʯDeliver nothing but the best for our veterans 
whose service to our nation deserves 
nothing less. 
 ʯSupport the arts and Australian cultural, 
sporting and recreational pursuits to foster 
and enhance community wellbeing.
 ʯBan gambling advertising during the 
broadcasting of live sport.
These measures will build strong and 
sustainable communities for all Australians.
Our country, particularly because of the 
values we adhere to, should always treat 
with respect and dignity those who have 
served us in uniform, people who have left 
their families, parents and loves ones to 
go and fight in another part of the world.
Peter Dutton, Leader of the Opposition 
36            GET AUSTRALIA BACK ON TRACK 
We have met Peter several 
times to prevent other families 
going through what we 
have, and each time he has 
listened to our concerns with 
compassion and support. 
Peter cared about our story 
and what happened to our 
family. He got the safety issues 
which are happening in the 
community. 
 It’s a no-brainer that Jack’s 
Law should go national, and it’s 
Peter who has strongly backed 
it. He is the leader who will 
make that happen. 
Belinda and Brett Beasley,  
Community Safety Advocates,
QueenslandTHE PRIORITIES OF A COALITION GOVERNMENT          37
38            GET AUSTRALIA BACK ON TRACK 
CUT GOVERNMENT WASTE 
T axpayer-funded advertising for political 
benefit and the appointments of mates to 
well remunerated roles has become a priority 
under Labor . Symbolism is being prioritised 
over practical action. Political objectives and 
nepotism have trumped merit and serving 
Australians.
Meanwhile, the performance of the Labor 
Government across key indicators in service 
delivery has plummeted.
Australian taxes are not being spent responsibly 
and under the Albanese Labor Government, 
Australia is heading in the wrong direction.   Labor is wasting our money on the wrong priorities. 
They spent nearly half a billion dollars to hold a divisive 
referendum that was comprehensively rejected by the 
Australian people.
Labor’s record spending is putting pressure on inflation 
and keeping the interest rates that are hurting Australian 
households and businesses higher for longer .
The size of the public service has exploded under 
Labor , with 36,000 extra Canberra based bureaucrats 
employed since the last election.1 Labor is more focused 
on overseas travel, conferences and symbolism, rather 
than delivering for Australians.
1  Budget 2024-25; Budget Paper 4, p181.
We Believe
We believe in, and value, a quality public service that 
provides frank advice, is free from political agendas 
and a culture of activism, and is focused on delivering 
genuine public services that benefit Australians.Every dollar that the government spends 
comes out of the pockets of everyday 
Australians. Australians work hard and 
expect their taxes to be spent prudently, 
responsibly, and fairly.
The Coalition believes in responsible and 
prudent budget management that helps 
keep inflation and interest rates low.
We believe in an efficient and effective 
government that provides the services 
Australians  rely on.
We believe governments should be focused 
on outcomes, not activity, and have a culture 
of efficiency and value for money.THE FAILED VOICE 
REFERENDUM 
COST NEARLY  
$500 MILLION.FACTUnder Labor
LABOR SPENT  
$174 MILLION OF  
TAXPAYER DOLLARS   
ON ADVERTISING IN 
2023/24 FINANCIAL YEAR.FACT
THE PRIORITIES OF A COALITION GOVERNMENT          39
A Dutton Coalition Government will cut 
government waste. 
We will spend what is necessary to deliver high 
quality services and support to Australians, 
where they need it most, while scrapping 
pointless programs and activist-focused 
positions. 
We will cut government waste and re-align the 
government’s priorities to the priorities of hard-
working everyday Australians. 
Government expenditure will be focused on 
addressing the challenges faced by Australian 
families and businesses, such as the cost of 
living and high-quality health and social services.Our SolutionPeter Dutton, Leader of the Opposition T axpayer money is your money – and a government must always spend 
Australians’ money wisely and responsibly. Since coming to power, Labor 
has spent an additional $347 billion. The creation of an extra 36,000 
Canberra based public servants hasn’t improved the lives of Australians one 
iota. At the next election, the Coalition will rein in Labor’s reckless spending.
A Dutton Coalition Government will:
 ʯHalt the growth of the Canberra based public 
service.
 ʯDeliver an efficient and responsive public service 
focused on the needs and priorities of Australians. 
 ʯScrap symbolic and pointless appointments and 
programs.
 ʯCut red and green tape that restricts business and 
increases the cost of living.
 ʯResponsibly manage the budget to take pressure 
off inflation.
These priorities will help cut government waste 
and ensure a Dutton Coalition Government’s agenda 
aligns to the expectations of Australians. 
A Coalition Government 
will respect your money, 
and put the values 
and views of everyday 
Australians first.
40            GET AUSTRALIA BACK ON TRACK 
A government I lead will be underpinned by 
the principles of the Westminster system of 
Cabinet Government. We will: 
Be consultative and make decisions 
after input from those with 
experience and expertise. 
Consider a wide variety of 
perspectives including those beyond 
the public sector bureaucracy.
Be a Cabinet that respects and 
encourages alternative perspectives 
and respectful debate.
Keep the promises we have made 
to the people of Australia and focus 
on the priorities outlined in this 
document. 
Lead a public service that is 
capable, focused and driven 
to deliver on the government’s 
priorities for all Australians. 
Be a government reflecting the 
views and values of Australians, 
comprised of people with varied 
backgrounds and experiences to 
ensure the best decisions are made. 
THE PRINCIPLES OF A 
DUTTON COALITION 
GOVERNMENT 
THE PRIORITIES OF A COALITION GOVERNMENT          41
42            GET AUSTRALIA BACK ON TRACK 
THE PRIORITIES OF A COALITION GOVERNMENT          43
The next federal election  
is a sliding doors moment 
for our nation. 
A returned Labor 
government – in majority  
or minority – will see 
setbacks set in stone. 
A newly elected Coalition 
Government is the only 
chance to get our country 
back on track and to 
reignite our national 
confidence and sense  
of hope.
Peter DuttonAuthorised by A. Hirst, Liberal Party of Australia, Cnr Blackall & Macquarie Streets, Barton ACT 2600.To find out more about our plan go to:
www.liberal.org.au/our-plan